This training session will cover ProProv.
ProProv is a language and system
for specifying provenance policies
over graphs representing the
provenance of secure computations.
Policies in ProProv can be expressed as logical
statements or predicates over provenance graphs.
ProProv also contains a graphical user
interface to specify and test policies.
Now let's introduce the syntax
of the ProProv language.
We use t as a generic variable to range over
the possible province node types which include:
account agent, node agent, agent, data entity,
contract entity, key entity, entity, and activity.
The agent type means that the node can be
either an account agent or a node agent.
The entity type means that the node can be either
a data entity, a contract entity, or a key entity.
Next, we use e as a generic variable
to range over possible edge labels
which are the provenance relations between nodes.
The possible edge labels are: was derived from,
was attributed to, was generated by, used,
acted on behalf of, and was associated with.
Next, we use x as a generic variable to range
over variable names which can be any string.
Next, we use n as a generic variable to arrange
over provenance node names which can also be any
string, and we use p as a generic variable to
range over provenance policies, which can be:
the negation of a policy p, the conjunction of
two policies, the disjunction of two policies,
the for all keyword followed by
a variable, a colon, a type t,
a dot, and a policy p and can be
pronounced "for all x of type t p holds".
Next, a policy can consist of the exists keyword
followed by a variable, a colon, a type t, a dot,
and a policy p and can be pronounced "there
exists an x of type t such that p holds".
Next, the policy p1 can imply a policy p2,
and lastly, a policy can consist of an edge
label followed by two nodes separated
by a comma and enclosed in parentheses.
The negation policy asserts that policy p is not
true. We can specify a negation policy using the
graphical user interface by clicking the drop-down
policy menu and selecting not. After making the
selection, another drop-down menu will appear
for another policy selection. The pane at the
bottom right of the screen will print the policy
in the ProProv language as it is constructed.
The conjunction policy, also called "logical
and", asserts that both policy p1 and p2 are true.
This policy can be specified using the
interface by clicking the policy drop-down
menu and selecting and. After this selection,
two more policy menus will appear for p1 and p2.
The disjunction policy, also called "logical
or", asserts that either policy p1 is true
policy, p2 is true, or both p1 and p2
are true. This policy can be specified
using the interface by clicking the
policy drop-down menu and selecting or.
After this selection, two more policy
menus will appear for p1 and p2
The universal policy asserts that policy p is true
for every provenance node of type t. Variable x
can be used in p. This policy can be specified
using the interface by selecting for all.
After this selection, three boxes will appear:
a typable box to enter a variable name,
a drop-down menu to select a provenance node
type, and a drop-down menu to select a policy.
The existential policy asserts that policy p
is true for some provenance node of type t.
Variable x can be used in p. This policy can be
specified using the interface by selecting exists.
After this selection, three boxes will appear:
a typable box to enter a variable name,
a drop-down menu to select a provenance node
type, and a drop-down menu to select a policy.
The implication policy asserts that if
policy p1 is true then policy p2 is true.
This policy can be specified using
the interface by selecting implies.
After the selection, two boxes will
appear for policy p1 and policy p2.
The edge policy asserts that there is an edge with
label e between node n1 and node n2, where e can
be any one of six provenance relations, which
includes was attributed to, was derived from,
was generated by, used, acted on
behalf of, and was associated with.
This policy can be specified by
selecting any one of the edge relations.
After the selection is made, two boxes
will appear for node n1 and node n2.
Now let's look at some examples of how we can
construct provenance policies using the ProProv
interface. During this study, the panel on the
right will have five input provenance graphs
to test your policy on. A graph that has a
green checkmark means that the graph should
satisfy your policy. A graph that has a red
X means the graph should violate your policy.
Lastly, ProProv is case insensitive; this
means that when typing provenance object names,
it does not matter whether you
use upper or lower case letters.
Now let's construct a policy
to ensure the activity average
used data entity SalaryB. We can
construct this policy by selecting used,
then typing average as the source node
and salary b as the destination node.
We can then evaluate our policy on the input
graphs by clicking the evaluate button.
Next, we want to write a policy to ensure that
data entity AverageSalary was not derived from
SalaryC. We can construct this policy by first
selecting not, then selecting was derived from.
Then we can type AverageSalary as the source node
and we can type SalaryC as the destination node.
Next, we want to write a policy to ensure
the activity Average used key entity KeyB
and KeyB was attributed to account agent Bob.
We can construct this policy by selecting and.
Then for the first policy box, we can select
used and type Average for the source node,
and KeyB for the destination node. For the
second policy, we can select was attributed to
and type KeyB for the source node
and Bob for the destination node.
Next, we want to write a policy to
ensure that there is some data entity
that AverageSalary was derived from. We can
construct this policy by first selecting exists.
We then enter a variable name, which we choose
to be d, we select the appropriate type,
which is data entity, and for the
policy we select was derived from.
For the source node, we type average salary,
and for the destination node, we select d.
Next, we want to write a policy to ensure
for every data entity, if activity average
used the data entity, then the data entity was
attributed to either Bob, Alice, or Mallory.
To construct this policy, we first select for
all. We then enter a variable name d, select the
appropriate type, which is data entity, and select
the implies policy. Then for the first policy,
we select used and type average as the source
node, and select d as the destination node.
For the second policy, we select
or, then select was attributed to
for the first policy and select d as the source
node and type Bob for the destination node.
For the second policy, we select or and for
the first policy we select was attributed to
for the first policy and select d for the source
node and type Alice for the destination node,
and for the second policy, we select
was attributed to and select d
for the source node and type
Mallory for the destination node.
If during this study you type an incorrect policy,
ProProv will indicate on which graphs your
policy did not succeed. You can then click ok,
after which you can try again or click save
and continue to proceed to the next question.
This concludes the ProProv training.